doc: Postgres direct source integration guides (#19453)
MaterializeInc/materialize: doc/user/content/connect-sources/cdc-postgres-direct.md

---
title: "Ingest data from PostgreSQL"

> description: "How to propagate Change Data Capture (CDC) data from a PostgreSQL database to Materialize"

Reviewer: In PostgreSQL, this is more often referred to a "replication" (e.g. logical replication) than CDC.

    weight: 5
---

> This page shows you how to stream data directly from a PostgreSQL database to Materialize using PostgreSQL's [logical replication](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/10/logical-replication.html) protocol.

Reviewer: Disagree with Marta here; people who run PG databases in production that have access to this feature will also know what replication is. Also "postgresql cdc" never shows up in Google comparative to "postgresql replication."

https://trends.google.com/trends/explore?date=now%201-d&geo=US&q=postgresql%20replication,postgresql%20cdc&hl=en

> This page shows you how to stream data directly from a PostgreSQL database to Materialize using PostgreSQL's [logical replication](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/10/logical-replication.html) protocol.

Reviewer 2: Both Algolia and [Google Search Console](https://search.google.com/search-console/performance/search-analytics?resource_id=sc-domain%3Amaterialize.com&hl=en) suggest "Postgres CDC" (and similar variations) is the search term users reach for in our space (vs. the whole internet). We've also seen users not being familiar with the concept of logical replication before learning about how CDC works in practice, but deferring to Jesse here.

> This page shows you how to stream data directly from a PostgreSQL database to Materialize using PostgreSQL's [logical replication](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/10/logical-replication.html) protocol.

Reviewer: SEO vs. local search performance have different levers, e.g. you can configure synonyms on your local search application ("cdc" and "replication" become the same word), whereas you cannot convince Google to do the same thing for you. Bringing up only in light of SEO--I don't have first-hand experience with users, though I imagine DBAs in charge of running production PG databases would know what replication is.

> ## Before you begin

Reviewer: I think we could also use a section explaining the structure of how PG sources work in Materialize; even a quick diagram that shows:

```
                          tbl_a
                          /
PG -> MZ -> Primary source -> tbl_b
                          \
                          tbl_c
```

The reasoning behind this is that I think we ought to give users some context around what a "subsource" is and what it means; when they create the PG source we have them type "FOR TABLES," but then when they start working within MZ on these objects, the errors they might receive refer to these objects as subsources.

Would be glad to help you work with someone in design to get something drafted.

> - Make sure you are running PostgreSQL 10 or higher.

Reviewer: nit: should be 11, or preferably

```
[a supported version of PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/support/versioning/)
```

- Make sure there are no schema changes planned or in progress on the tables that you want to replicate.

>   If Materialize detects a schema change on a table it is replicating, Materialize will [log an error](/manage/troubleshooting/#why-isnt-my-source-ingesting-data) and stop all replication from the PostgreSQL database. To handle schema changes, you will need to redo the integration. See [Handling schema changes](#handling-schema-changes) for more details.

Reviewer: This has subtly changed, as per these docs:
https://materialize.com/docs/sql/create-source/postgres/#schema-changes

I might just summarize this as "review the known limitations" or make them a snippet and inline them here.

## Step 1. Enable logical replication

> Materialize uses PostgreSQL's [logical replication](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/10/logical-replication.html) protocol to track changes in your Postgres datatabse and propogate them to Materialize.

Author: Done.

> Materialize uses PostgreSQL's [logical replication](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/10/logical-replication.html) protocol to track changes in your Postgres datatabse and propogate them to Materialize.

Author: Done.

> As a first step, you need to make sure logical replication is enabled.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
First, make sure logical replication is enabled.
```

{{< tabs >}}
{{< tab "AWS RDS">}}

As a user with the role `rds_superuser`:

1. Connect a SQL shell to your database and check if logical replication is enabled:

    ``` sql
    SELECT name,setting
      FROM pg_settings
      WHERE name = 'rds.logical_replication';
    ```

    If logical replication is already on, skip to [Step 2](#step-2-create-a-publication):

>     ``` noftmt

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    ``` nofmt
```

            name             | setting
    -------------------------+---------
    rds.logical_replication  | on
    (1 row)
    ```

    If logical replication is off, continue to the next step:

>     ``` noftm

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    ``` nofmt
```

            name             | setting
    -------------------------+---------
    rds.logical_replication  | off
    (1 row)
    ```

> 1. [Create a custom RDS parameter group](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/USER_WorkingWithDBInstanceParamGroups.html#USER_WorkingWithParamGroups.Creating).

Reviewer: What a nightmare! You've done great diligence in making sure this works. 🙇

>     Be sure to set **Parameter group family** to your Postgres version and **Type** to **DB Parameter Group**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Set **Parameter group family** to your Postgres version and **Type** to **DB Parameter Group**.
```

1. Edit the new parameter group and set the `rds.logical_replication` parameter to `1`.

1. [Associate the RDS parameter group to your database](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/USER_WorkingWithDBInstanceParamGroups.html#USER_WorkingWithParamGroups.Associating).

>     Be sure to use the **Apply Immediately** option. The database must be rebooted in order for the parameter group association to take effect.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Use the **Apply Immediately** option. The database must be rebooted in order for the parameter group association to take effect.
```

    Do not move on to the next step until the database **Status** is **Available** in the RDS Console.

1. Back in your SQL shell, verify that replication is now enabled:

    ``` sql
    SELECT name,setting
      FROM pg_settings
      WHERE name = 'rds.logical_replication';
    ```

>     ``` noftm

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    ``` nofmt
```

            name             | setting
    -------------------------+---------
    rds.logical_replication  | on
    (1 row)
    ```

    If replication is still not enabled, [reboot the database](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/USER_RebootInstance.html).

{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab "Self-hosted">}}

As a _superuser_:

1. Check the [`wal_level` configuration](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/wal-configuration.html) setting:

    ```sql
    SHOW wal_level;
    ```

>     The default value is `replica`. For CDC, you'll need to set it to `logical` in the database configuration file (`postgresql.conf`). Keep in mind that changing the `wal_level` requires a restart of the Postgres instance and can affect database performance.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    The default value is `replica`. For CDC, set it to `logical` in the database configuration file (`postgresql.conf`). Be aware that changing the `wal_level` requires a restart of the Postgres instance and can affect database performance.
```

{{< /tabs >}}

## Step 2. Create a publication

Once logical replication is enabled, the next step is to create a publication with the tables that you want to replicate to Materialize. You'll also need create a user for Materialize and give the user permissions to manage replication.

{{< tabs >}}
{{< tab "AWS RDS">}}

1. For each table that you want to replicate to Materialize, set the [replica identity](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/sql-altertable.html#SQL-ALTERTABLE-REPLICA-IDENTITY) to `FULL`:

    ```sql
    ALTER TABLE table1 REPLICA IDENTITY FULL;
    ```

>     This setting makes sure sufficient information is written to the replication stream for  `UPDATE` and `DELETE` operations.

Reviewer 3: Can you add some extra context here? I'm not sure what sufficient information means.

Reviewer: I think a good thing to link to for users to understand this is https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/logical-replication-publication.html, though I think it warrants context that even though PG makes this sound scary, it's actually very beneficial for Materialize because it gives PG sources more powerful semantics (e.g. being able to UPSERT) while not requiring nearly as much memory.

>     <!-- THE LINKED PAGE DOESN'T TALK ABOUT INCREASED CPU. WE SHOULD FIND ANOTHER PAGE TO LINK TO. COMMENTING THIS OUT IN THE MEANTIME. As a heads-up, you should expect a performance hit in the database from increased CPU usage. For more information, see the [PostgreSQL documentation](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/logical-replication-publication.html). -->

Reviewer: I think the conversation about increased CPU usage is a little vague--what is more pressing is the increased disk usage (you have to store more data in the WAL).  I think quantifying it this way also alleviates some user apprehension because disk space is cheap. I don't know that a larger WAL _really_ demands more out of the CPU. It's like saying a hard drive that has less free space offers less CPU.

1. Create a [publication](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/logical-replication-publication.html) with the tables you want to replicate:

>     _For specific tables:_

Reviewer: This instruction is for creating the publication in PG--I think the feature Marta's talking about is for creating the source on the MZ side.

    ```sql
    CREATE PUBLICATION mz_source FOR TABLE table1, table2;
    ```

    _For all tables in the database:_

    ```sql
    CREATE PUBLICATION mz_source FOR ALL TABLES;
    ```

    The `mz_source` publication will contain the set of change events generated from the specified tables, and will later be used to ingest the replication stream.

>     We strongly recommend that you **limit** publications only to the tables you need.

Reviewer: If you'd like a little context to add: if the publication includes other tables (e.g. they create a publication for all tables), Materialize still ingests the data for the other tables, but then just discards the data as it comes in. For a contrived example, if you only wanted to ingest data for 1 table but the publication contains 1,000 tables, we're wasting a lot of resources filtering out all of the stuff we don't want.

1. Create a user for Materialize:

    ``` sql
    CREATE USER materialize PASSWORD '<password>';
    ```

1. Grant the user permission to manage replication:

    ``` sql
    GRANT rds_replication TO materialize;
    ```

> 1. Grant the user the required permissions on the tables you want to replicate:

Reviewer: Not a huge deal, but this says to grant permissions for the tables you want to replicate, but then grants privileges on all tables in the schema. That's probably fine but worth changing the language or the instruction (I'd change the language because enumerating the list of tables you want to select from is annoying).

Reviewer 4: FWIW, in our internal use case (populating ODW Materialize with fivetran data), we don't want to have to go back in and grant permissions on each new table that Fivetran creates in the database for us, so the option of granting permissions on everything in the schema is more convenient. It would be nice to have a suggestion that this is possible, at least.

Author: Done.

    ```sql
    GRANT CONNECT ON DATABASE <dbname> TO materialize;
    ```

    ```sql
    GRANT USAGE ON SCHEMA <schema> TO materialize;
    ```

    ```sql
    GRANT SELECT ON ALL TABLES IN SCHEMA <schema> TO materialize;
    ```

>     **Note:** `SELECT` privileges on the tables you want to replicate are needed for the initial snapshot.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    **Note:** You must enable `SELECT` privileges on the tables you want to replicate for the initial snapshot.
```

Materialize performs an initial sync of all tables in the publication before it starts ingesting change events.
{{</ note >}}

## Step 5. Monitor the initial snapshot

> ## Step 6. Explore data in Materialize

Author: Moving this out of scope for these guides.

## Next steps

> Any materialized view that depends on replication subsources will be incrementally updated as change events stream in, as a result of `INSERT`, `UPDATE` and `DELETE` operations in the original Postgres database.

Reviewer: "replication subsources" is a new term here--this likely needs to be tightened up a bit/clarified.
